substrate/frame/session/README.md, before:

# Session Pallet

The Session module allows validators to manage their session keys, provides a function for changing the session length,
and handles session rotation.

- [`session::Trait`](https://docs.rs/pallet-session/latest/pallet_session/trait.Config.html)
- [`Call`](https://docs.rs/pallet-session/latest/pallet_session/enum.Call.html)
- [`Pallet`](https://docs.rs/pallet-session/latest/pallet_session/struct.Pallet.html)

## Overview

### Terminology
<!-- Original author of paragraph: @gavofyork -->

- **Session:** A session is a period of time that has a constant set of validators. Validators can only join or exit the
validator set at a session change. It is measured in block numbers. The block where a session is ended is determined by
the `ShouldEndSession` trait. When the session is ending, a new validator set can be chosen by `OnSessionEnding`
implementations.
- **Session key:** A session key is actually several keys kept together that provide the various signing functions
required by network authorities/validators in pursuit of their duties.
- **Validator ID:** Every account has an associated validator ID. For some simple staking systems, this may just be the
same as the account ID. For staking systems using a stash/controller model, the validator ID would be the stash account
ID of the controller.
- **Session key configuration process:** Session keys are set using `set_keys` for use not in the next session, but the
session after next. They are stored in `NextKeys`, a mapping between the caller's `ValidatorId` and the session keys
provided. `set_keys` allows users to set their session key prior to being selected as validator. It is a public call
since it uses `ensure_signed`, which checks that the origin is a signed account. As such, the account ID of the origin
stored in `NextKeys` may not necessarily be associated with a block author or a validator. The session keys of accounts
are removed once their account balance is zero.
- **Session length:** This pallet does not assume anything about the length of each session. Rather, it relies on an
implementation of `ShouldEndSession` to dictate a new session's start. This pallet provides the `PeriodicSessions`
struct for simple periodic sessions.
- **Session rotation configuration:** Configure as either a 'normal' (rewardable session where rewards are applied) or
'exceptional' (slashable) session rotation.
- **Session rotation process:** At the beginning of each block, the `on_initialize` function queries the provided
implementation of `ShouldEndSession`. If the session is to end the newly activated validator IDs and session keys are
taken from storage and passed to the `SessionHandler`. The validator set supplied by `SessionManager::new_session` and
the corresponding session keys, which may have been registered via `set_keys` during the previous session, are written
to storage where they will wait one session before being passed to the `SessionHandler` themselves.

### Goals

The Session pallet is designed to make the following possible:

- Set session keys of the validator set for upcoming sessions.
- Control the length of sessions.
- Configure and switch between either normal or exceptional session rotations.

## Interface

### Dispatchable Functions

- `set_keys` - Set a validator's session keys for upcoming sessions.

### Public Functions

- `rotate_session` - Change to the next session. Register the new authority set. Queue changes for next session
rotation.
- `disable_index` - Disable a validator by index.
- `disable` - Disable a validator by Validator ID

## Usage

### Example from the FRAME

The [Staking pallet](https://docs.rs/pallet-staking/latest/pallet_staking/) uses the Session pallet to get the validator
set.

```rust
use pallet_session as session;

fn validators<T: pallet_session::Config>() -> Vec<<T as pallet_session::Config>::ValidatorId> {
	pallet_session::Validators::<T>::get()
}
```

## Related Pallets

- [Staking](https://docs.rs/pallet-staking/latest/pallet_staking/)

License: Apache-2.0

Commit message:

Add deposit for setting session keys (#7953)
# Description
closes #1625

Implement hold balance tracking for test accounts in the session pallet.
Requires `pallet_session::Config` to specify:
    * `type Currency`, assigned to an instance of `pallet_balances`.
* `type RuntimeHoldReason`, almost always set to `RuntimeHoldReason`.
* `type KeyDeposit`, the amount of deposit. Set to `()` to assert no
deposit amount is needed.
    
Polkadot address: 14AgwoPjcRiEEJgjfHmvAqkjdERCG26WEvQUoGLuBzcXKMS2

---------

Co-authored-by: Kian Paimani <5588131+kianenigma@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: kianenigma <kian@parity.io>
Co-authored-by: cmd[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Bastian Köcher <git@kchr.de>

substrate/frame/session/README.md, after:

# Session Pallet

The Session module allows validators to manage their session keys, provides a function for changing the session length,
and handles session rotation.

- [`session::Trait`](https://docs.rs/pallet-session/latest/pallet_session/trait.Config.html)
- [`Call`](https://docs.rs/pallet-session/latest/pallet_session/enum.Call.html)
- [`Pallet`](https://docs.rs/pallet-session/latest/pallet_session/struct.Pallet.html)

## Overview

### Terminology
<!-- Original author of paragraph: @gavofyork -->

- **Session:** A session is a period of time that has a constant set of validators. Validators can only join or exit the
validator set at a session change. It is measured in block numbers. The block where a session is ended is determined by
the `ShouldEndSession` trait. When the session is ending, a new validator set can be chosen by `OnSessionEnding`
implementations.
- **Session key:** A session key is actually several keys kept together that provide the various signing functions
required by network authorities/validators in pursuit of their duties.
- **Validator ID:** Every account has an associated validator ID. For some simple staking systems, this may just be the
same as the account ID. For staking systems using a stash/controller model, the validator ID would be the stash account
ID of the controller.
- **Session key configuration process:** Session keys are set using `set_keys` for use not in the next session, but the
session after next. They are stored in `NextKeys`, a mapping between the caller's `ValidatorId` and the session keys
provided. `set_keys` allows users to set their session key prior to being selected as validator. When setting keys, a deposit
is required and reserved from the account. The account must have sufficient funds available for this deposit, or the
operation will fail. This deposit is returned when the keys are purged. `set_keys` is a public call since it uses
`ensure_signed`, which checks that the origin is a signed account. As such, the account ID of the origin stored in
`NextKeys` may not necessarily be associated with a block author or a validator. The session keys of accounts are removed
once their account balance is zero.
- **Session length:** This pallet does not assume anything about the length of each session. Rather, it relies on an
implementation of `ShouldEndSession` to dictate a new session's start. This pallet provides the `PeriodicSessions`
struct for simple periodic sessions.
- **Session rotation configuration:** Configure as either a 'normal' (rewardable session where rewards are applied) or
'exceptional' (slashable) session rotation.
- **Session rotation process:** At the beginning of each block, the `on_initialize` function queries the provided
implementation of `ShouldEndSession`. If the session is to end the newly activated validator IDs and session keys are
taken from storage and passed to the `SessionHandler`. The validator set supplied by `SessionManager::new_session` and
the corresponding session keys, which may have been registered via `set_keys` during the previous session, are written
to storage where they will wait one session before being passed to the `SessionHandler` themselves.

### Goals

The Session pallet is designed to make the following possible:

- Set session keys of the validator set for upcoming sessions.
- Control the length of sessions.
- Configure and switch between either normal or exceptional session rotations.

## Interface

### Dispatchable Functions

- `set_keys` - Set a validator's session keys for upcoming sessions.

### Public Functions

- `rotate_session` - Change to the next session. Register the new authority set. Queue changes for next session
rotation.
- `disable_index` - Disable a validator by index.
- `disable` - Disable a validator by Validator ID

## Usage

### Example from the FRAME

The [Staking pallet](https://docs.rs/pallet-staking/latest/pallet_staking/) uses the Session pallet to get the validator
set.

```rust
use pallet_session as session;

fn validators<T: pallet_session::Config>() -> Vec<<T as pallet_session::Config>::ValidatorId> {
 pallet_session::Validators::<T>::get()
}
```

## Related Pallets

- [Staking](https://docs.rs/pallet-staking/latest/pallet_staking/)

License: Apache-2.0
