docs/BACKPORT.md, before:

# Backporting

This document explains how to backport a merged PR from `master` to one of the `stable*` branches.
Backports should only be used to fix bugs or security issues - never to introduce new features.

## Steps

1. Fix a bug through a PR that targets `master`.
2. Add label related to the branch to wich to backport changes to the PR.
    - `A4-backport-stable2407`
    - `A4-backport-stable2409`
    - `A4-backport-stable2412`
    - `A4-backport-stable2503`
3. Merge the PR into `master`.
4. Wait for the bot to open the backport PR.
5. Ensure the change is audited or does not need audit.
6. Merge the backport PR.

The label can also be added after the PR is merged.

ℹ️ If, for some reasons, a backport PR was not created automatically, it can be done manually.
But it is important, that the PR title follows the following pattern:
`[stableBranchName] Backport #originalPRNumber` (i.e. **[stable2412] Backport #8198**)

## Example

For example here where the dev triggered the process by adding the label after merging:

![backport](./images/backport-ex2.png)

Commit message:

[Release|CI/CD] Combine branch-off and RC automation flows (#8754)
This PR combines two release flows that are responsible for the first
steps in the release process: Branch-off a stable branch and Create RC
tag flows.
Both actions now can be done from one flow by choosing a needed option
in the triggering form:
<img width="316" alt="Screenshot 2025-06-05 at 11 30 09"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/767bc351-918f-41e9-af42-f94a20036a50"
/>

The tagging can be done as part of branch off directly or as an
independent action as usually there are some other release activities
(like crates release) done after the branch is created.
Closes: https://github.com/paritytech/devops/issues/3825

docs/BACKPORT.md, after:

# Backporting

This document explains how to backport a merged PR from `master` to one of the `stable*` branches.
Backports should only be used to fix bugs or security issues - never to introduce new features.

## Steps

1. Fix a bug through a PR that targets `master`.
2. Add label related to the branch to wich to backport changes to the PR.
    - `A4-backport-stable2407`
    - `A4-backport-stable2409`
    - `A4-backport-stable2412`
    - `A4-backport-stable2503`
3. Merge the PR into `master`.
4. Wait for the bot to open the backport PR.
5. Ensure the change is audited or does not need audit.
6. Merge the backport PR.(ℹ️ for the branches starting from 2412 it can be done automatically
    if backport PR has at least two reviews and a pipeline is green)

The label can also be added after the PR is merged.

ℹ️ If, for some reasons, a backport PR was not created automatically, it can be done manually.
But it is important, that the PR title follows the following pattern:
`[stableBranchName] Backport #originalPRNumber` (i.e. **[stable2412] Backport #8198**)

## Example

For example here where the dev triggered the process by adding the label after merging:

![backport](./images/backport-ex2.png)
